LONDON &mdash; On a rainy afternoon, Kathryn Hunter rises from a table in an upstairs rehearsal room at the Young Vic Theater and begins an extraordinary transformation. Her knees bend and her pelvis lowers. Her toes twist inward and her elbows out. Her arms seem somehow to lengthen and her chest broadens. Her brow furrows and her cheeks round. In
Nathan Lane was 21 and at a loss when he fell for another actor in a dinner theater production of &ldquo;Guys and Dolls&rdquo; in 1977. While Mr. Lane had known for years that he was gay, he struggled with self-loathing over his sexuality, and the art of flirting mystified him. Finally, on the last night of the musical, the other man asked him to
The lineup of characters ran in the left column of the Playbill, one name after another of people from my younger life in the city&rsquo;s tabloid newspapers. Mike McAlary and Michael Daly, columnists. John Cotter and Hap Hairston, editors. Bob Drury, reporter.&nbsp; Also, me, a member of the standing army of columnists. Down the right side of the
WHILE Douglas Carter Beane didn&rsquo;t base &ldquo;The Nance,&rdquo; starring Nathan Lane, on any real-life figure from burlesque, he did draw on several performers for inspiration, from the Roaring Twenties to today. One of the most popular pansy performers, as they were called in the 1920s, was Jean Malin , who cut an elegant figure in New York
In his latest movie, a noir thriller called &ldquo;Everybody Has a Plan,&rdquo; Viggo Mortensen plays twin brothers, one a doctor in a midlife crisis, the other a ne&rsquo;er-do-well mixed up in all kinds of shady business. In her newest offering, &ldquo;In the House,&rdquo; Kristin Scott Thomas is cast as an art gallery director whose marriage
Zack Carlson is a huge fan of the 1981 horror film &ldquo;The Evil Dead.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s why he won&rsquo;t be seeing the new &ldquo;Evil Dead&rdquo; when it opens on Friday. &ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t watch it at gunpoint,&rdquo; said Mr. Carlson, a writer for the horror movie Web site Bleeding Skull. As &ldquo;High Noon&rdquo; is considered a
Did you watch the classic 1980 horror film &ldquo;The Shining&rdquo; and think it was about a man driven to insane and murderous rage by a haunted hotel? If so, you blew it. Or rather, you missed profound messages subtly embedded in the film by its enigmatic director, Stanley Kubrick. That, at least, is the notion behind &ldquo;Room 237,&rdquo; a
AUSTIN, TEX. &mdash; Danny Boyle has always been something of a cinematic hypnotist. He has a knack for guiding moviegoers across disparate cinematic terrain using colorful, kinetic visuals and throbbing electronic soundtracks, conjuring immersive worlds that viewers easily fall into. But you&rsquo;d go broke betting on where he was headed next.
LUIS BU&ntilde;UEL began his career as a filmmaker with a Dadaist determination to shock and outrage. He cast himself as the square-jawed dandy who, at the beginning of his first film, &ldquo;Un Chien Andalou&rdquo; (1929), impassively draws a straight razor across the eyeball of a compliant young woman without troubling to remove the cigarette
That Filipina Diva Kicks Up Her Heels When I heard that a musical about Imelda Marcos was in the making, the first thing I wondered was, how many shoes will be onstage? Or maybe the whole show take place inside a shoe. So I was surprised to read in Vogue that David Byrne, the former Talking Heads singer who wrote the lyrics and composed the songs
Steve Coleman and Five Elements FUNCTIONAL ARRHYTHMIAS Vibration is essence for the alto saxophonist and composer Steve Coleman, whose nearly 30-year output as a leader suggests one long investigation, discursive but controlled. &ldquo;Functional Arrhythmias,&rdquo; just out on Pi Recordings, comes with a new conceptual hook: It&rsquo;s a
&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t want to see me after a rehearsal,&rdquo; said the mezzo-soprano Alice Coote , looking stylish during a recent prerehearsal interview at the Metropolitan Opera. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sweating and disgusting. I have to sing while being physically active and rolling around the floor and leaping around with guns.&rdquo;
Rachmaninoff: &lsquo;All-Night Vigil&rsquo; Latvian Radio Choir, conducted by Sigvards Klava. Ondine ODE 1206-5; CD. Easter is upon us in the West, but the Russian Easter falls especially late this year, on May 5. So there is time enough to revel in the latest recording of Rachmaninoff&rsquo;s wonderful Vespers, as the &ldquo;All-Night Vigil&rdquo;
Mozart: Piano Concertos Nos. 20 in D minor, 21 in C Jan Lisiecki, pianist; Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Christian Zacharias. Deutsche Grammophon B0016888-02; CD. The pianist Jan Lisiecki , born in Canada to Polish parents, was 16 when he made this debut recording for Deutsche Grammophon and 17 when he made his debut with the New
IT PROBABLY SEEMED LIKE a good idea at the time for the members of the British glam-metal band Wrathchild to be so peacockishly come-hither on the cover of their 1984 album &ldquo;Stakk Attakk.&rdquo; With songs like &ldquo;Trash Queen&rdquo; and &ldquo;Too Wild to Tame,&rdquo; no doubt they took pride in their toweringly teased locks, baby-doll
&lsquo;Fellow Traveler: The Complete String Quartet Works of John Adams&rsquo; Attacca Quartet. Azica ACD-71280; CD. During much of the 1980s and &rsquo;90s it was possible to think that only one string quartet in the world was devoted to expanding the genre&rsquo;s repertory. The Kronos Quartet then provided (and still provides) the impetus and
JEREMY PIVEN IS BEST KNOWN as the venal, tantrum-throwing superagent Ari Gold on HBO&rsquo;s hit comedy &ldquo;Entourage&rdquo; ; as an alumnus of the Piven Theater Workshop in Chicago, founded by his parents, Joyce and Byrne Piven; and as the center of a highly publicized 2009 breach-of-contract dispute after he left a Broadway production of
LOS ANGELES &mdash; In the time that Peter Dinklage has portrayed the cunning nobleman Tyrion Lannister on the HBO fantasy series &ldquo;Game of Thrones,&rdquo; he has calculated his way out of life-or-death situations, led victorious armies on battlefields and won an Emmy Award and a Golden Globe for his work. But he had never been to a gala
SAN FRANCISCO &mdash; &ldquo;This is one of my favorite things to do,&rdquo; Barry McGee said as he drove along the Bayshore Freeway on a glowering winter day, pointing out random patches of new graffiti. He was supposed to be talking about his traveling midcareer retrospective, which opens Saturday at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston.
MOSCOW &mdash; The scandal surrounding the 1913 Paris premiere of &ldquo;The Rite of Spring,&rdquo; by Serge Diaghilev&rsquo;s Ballets Russes, is legendary. The performance of Vaslav Nijinksy&rsquo;s modernist choreography, based on pagan ritual and set to Stravinsky&rsquo;s dissonant score, shocked audiences and changed the course of dance.
Of all living literary figures, William Gass may count as the most daringly scathing and the most assertively fecund: in language, in ideas, in intricacy of form (essays zigzagging thought); above all in relentless fury. &ldquo;I write because I hate,&rdquo; he declaimed in a 1977 Paris Review interview. And another time, in a French newspaper:
OUR LADY OF ALICE BHATTI , by Mohammed Hanif. (Vintage, $15.) Alice Bhatti, a Karachi nurse with mysterious healing powers, is at the center of Hanif&rsquo;s blistering comedy, which delivers a broadside on the socially sanctioned butchery of women and girls in Pakistan. Working miracles at Sacred Heart Hospital for All Ailments, a cesspit of
One of the challenges white writers face in creating black characters is the avoidance of caricature and stereotype. If cultural appropriation must take place, the thinking goes, then authors should treat black narratives &mdash; often the products of American history, and thus as sacred as the Constitution itself &mdash; with kid gloves. If they
That old dictum, write what you know? I&rsquo;ve always thought that was terrible advice. Most of us don&rsquo;t know much. And what we do know can feel shopworn in the retelling. Shopworn or just divested of emotional content. Sometimes, the things we&rsquo;re closest to &mdash; our lives, for instance &mdash; are the very things we least want to
THE HONORED SOCIETY A Portrait of Italy&rsquo;s Most Powerful Mafia. By Petra Reski. Translated by Shaun Whiteside. Nation Books, paper, $16.99. The Mafia nowadays seems a cartoonish threat, the domain of Mario Puzo and neurotic dons. Reski, a German journalist, warns otherwise. The murder of six Italian Mafiosi in a German pizzeria in 2007, which
&ldquo;How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia&rdquo; begins under a bed. With you &mdash; yes, you &mdash; under a bed. Once you quit cowering, you&rsquo;ll be the hero of this novel written in the second person, although there&rsquo;s nothing remotely heroic about you at the moment; you&rsquo;re so sick you can scarcely speak. The only remedy at
Narrative imagination is its own thing: the muscular yet uncanny gift of the storyteller. It is distinct from useful, more rational elements like the psychology of characters, rich details of settings, pungent dialogue, clever plots, memorable images &mdash; all remain mechanical unless animated by the pure mastery of &ldquo;and then,&rdquo; the
In a summary, most literary careers nowadays &mdash; in New York or Zagreb &mdash; can look eerily similar. Take, for instance, the case of Alejandro Zambra. Zambra is a Chilean who has so far written three novels. He was born in 1975, and teaches literature at the Diego Portales University in Santiago. He has figured on Granta&rsquo;s list of best
The author of &ldquo;The Burgess Boys&rdquo; and &ldquo;Olive Kitteridge&rdquo; thinks the president should read Barbara Pym to give him &ldquo;a few minutes to completely relax.&rdquo; Where and when do you like to read? For years I did most of my reading on the F train between Brooklyn and Manhattan. I had long commutes, and I read tons of books
As we commemorate the 50th anniversary of Gideon v. Wainwright, the landmark Supreme Court decision that gave poor defendants the right to counsel, it would be nice to celebrate. That case, taken together with the 1967 decision In re Gault, which gave juveniles the same rights in court as adults, stands for the principle that process matters in our
Sandra Day O&rsquo;Connor retired from the Supreme Court in 2006, but she still turns up for the occasional argument, sitting off to the side in one of the seats reserved for important guests. She can look a little grim, and with reason. The court has been busy disassembling her work. In its 2010 decision in Citizens United, for instance, the court
A BOARDROOM OF ONE&rsquo;S OWN: &ldquo;Lean In,&rdquo; Sheryl Sandberg&rsquo;s polarizing manifesto about the role of women in the workplace, roars onto the hardcover nonfiction list this week at No. 1. Sandberg is the chief operating officer of Facebook, and her book has renewed longstanding debates about the paucity of female executives and the
On a trip to Paris, I recently had the same shocked realization that Andrea Stuart describes in her astounding new book, &ldquo;Sugar in the Blood.&rdquo; Slaves built this , I thought as I wandered from one grand 18th-century monument to the next. How rarely we acknowledge that Europe&rsquo;s great cities were built on profits from the labor and
What does a political refugee notice when arriving in, say, Los Angeles? Is he shocked by the quotidian displays of flesh? Troubled by the angry jumble of a city he has known only in its varnished Saturday matinee form? Unbalanced by discordant echoes of home, like the Venice Beach busker whose turban appears native to the old country? For Saladin
Richard Hell was partly responsible for the phenomenon of punk, a visionary whose style Malcolm McLaren imported to England and impressed upon his pet project, the Sex Pistols, who popularized and cashed in on Hell&rsquo;s spiky hair, torn clothes and audacious attitude &mdash; embodied in his seminal record of 1977, &ldquo;Blank Generation.&rdquo;
WAVE , by Sonali Deraniyagala. (Knopf, $24.) Deraniyagala&rsquo;s unforgettable account of her struggle to carry on living after her husband, sons and parents were killed in the 2004 tsunami isn&rsquo;t only as unsparing as they come, but also defiantly imbued with light. FRANCES AND BERNARD , by Carlene Bauer. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $23.) The
To the Editor: To encourage constructive debate, we will address two of the larger issues raised in &mdash; and by &mdash; Laura Secor&rsquo;s review of our book &ldquo;Going to Tehran: Why the United States Must Come to Terms With the Islamic Republic of Iran&rdquo; (March 3). Secor&rsquo;s journalistic record identifies her as someone with a
Beautiful Rosa Parks sits alone in the Montgomery, Ala., city bus she desegregated, an image endlessly replicated, most recently on an American postage stamp issued in February to commemorate Black History Month and what would have been Parks&rsquo;s 100th birthday. By the time she died in 2005, Parks had become an American saint. President Bill
This week, the eminent novelist and critic Cynthia Ozick reviews &ldquo;Middle C,&rdquo; by the eminent novelist and critic William H. Gass. Both are octogenarians &mdash; Ozick is 84, Gass 88 &mdash; but does it matter? &ldquo;Age may be a legitimate category of informative journalism, and certainly of obituaries,&rdquo; Ozick said via e-mail,
The Karl Marx depicted in Jonathan Sperber&rsquo;s absorbing, meticulously researched biography will be unnervingly familiar to anyone who has had even the most fleeting acquaintance with radical politics. Here is a man never more passionate than when attacking his own side, saddled with perennial money problems and still reliant on his parents for
It&rsquo;s tempting to invest the remnants of the past &mdash; the letters, the heirlooms, the junk &mdash; with tremendous explanatory power, especially when the stuff is your family&rsquo;s. The clich&eacute; about the dustbin of history is almost too apt when Alexander Stille walks into his aunt Lally&rsquo;s apartment. Buried in the stacks of
Richard Griffiths, the rotund British actor whose stage career reached a pinnacle with his Tony-winning performance as an idealistic but tormented pedagogue in Alan Bennett&rsquo;s play &ldquo;The History Boys&rdquo; and who achieved popular fame in the movies as Harry Potter &rsquo;s mean-spirited Uncle Vernon Dursley, died on Thursday in
With &ldquo;Geek!&rdquo; the playwright Crystal Skillman and the troupe Vampire Cowboys fly high the freak flag of fantasy. An ode to fangirls and fanboys, the show, in Cowboys tradition, celebrates the universe of anime, comics, science fiction, manga and Hollywood effects spectaculars. It&rsquo;s a milieu Ms. Skillman clearly knows well and
It&rsquo;s easy to be fascinated by our own dreams. Yet when the dreams of others are recounted to us, so much gets lost in translation. Or, to put it more plainly: suffering through someone else&rsquo;s jump cuts and surreal metaphors can be tedious&nbsp; as all get-out. &nbsp; There goes art imitating life again in the National Asian-American
LOS ANGELES &mdash; The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is inviting its roughly 6,000 members to join what promises to be an unusual group discussion of something that has set off much private debate here recently: the Academy&rsquo;s future. Word of the planned session was sent to members on Thursday in an e-mail from Hawk Koch, the
The actor, director and playwright Tyler Perry has long embraced religion in his films, but perhaps never more so than in his slack fable &ldquo;Temptation: Confessions of a Marriage Counselor.&rdquo; Adapted from his 2008 play, &ldquo;The Marriage Counselor,&rdquo; the movie inveighs against deviation from the church, monogamy and the righteous
Lara Croft, perhaps the most famous heroine in video games, started out as a man, according to reports about her creation some 17 years ago. She was too much of an Indiana Jones clone, the men making the original Tomb Raider thought, so they turned her into a woman. She was certainly no damsel in distress. Introduced as a busty explorer in a tight
Over the last decade, the duo known as a Hawk and a Hacksaw have been exploring the traditional music of Eastern Europe from a distinctly American folk-pop perspective. Though the accordion player Jeremy Barnes was formerly the drummer in Neutral Milk Hotel, and the violinist and pianist Heather Trost played on Beirut&rsquo;s first two records,
During the &ldquo;Infernal Dance&rdquo; of Stravinsky&rsquo;s &ldquo;Firebird,&rdquo; which depicts the subjects of the ogre Kastchei spinning with such savagery that they drop in exhaustion, the music builds to vehement, searing chords. In his performance of the complete &ldquo;Firebird&rdquo; on Thursday night with the Los Angeles Philharmonic at
For many casual observers, the term &ldquo;wind ensemble&rdquo; will conjure up notions of earnest students huffing and thumping through Sousa marches and college fight songs. But aficionados, and those who have played in a university wind ensemble during the last 30 years or so, know that such groups now constitute a bona fide hotbed of
