The American-bred Lines of Battle held off Elleval and the fast-finishing Secret Number to win the $2 million U.A.E. Derby at Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. Shuruq was fastest out of the gates but was passed by Law Enforcement after 400 meters. Lines of Battle then took the lead, only to be passed at the 800-meter mark by the American-bred
To the Sports Editor: Re &ldquo;Acceptance by Example, on the Field and at Home,&rdquo; March 24: Scott Fujita&rsquo;s eloquent essay in favor of gay marriage touched me deeply, especially the following words: &ldquo;One thing I know for certain is that you can&rsquo;t put a face on love, and you can&rsquo;t tell me what a family is supposed to
Manchester United relied on a first-half own goal by Titus Bramble to beat host Sunderland, 1-0, on Saturday, securing a seventh straight win that inched United closer to a 20th title in England&rsquo;s Premier League. Robin van Persie&rsquo;s shot in the 27th minute was headed wide, but Bramble stuck out a leg and deflected the ball into his own
Japan&rsquo;s Kaname Yokoo will go into Sunday&rsquo;s final round with a one-shot lead and no real expectations after carding a bogey-free five-under-par 67 in the next to last round of the Indonesia PGA Championship. Yokoo leads with a 15-under-par 201 in the $1 million tournament co-sanctioned by OneAsia and the Japan Golf Tour. The Australians
ATLANTA &mdash; The Georgia Dome, the host of the men&rsquo;s Final Four this year, is 21 years old and adequate as a site for major sporting events. But because more money can be made with a new stadium, a path is being cleared for the dome&rsquo;s extinction. So this is probably the last time a college basketball champion will be crowned at its
NEW ORLEANS &mdash; If LeBron James seemed bothered by the lapse of Miami&rsquo;s 27-game winning streak or the hard fouls &mdash; physical and verbal &mdash; he had absorbed in recent days, it was not apparent Friday morning. His hunger for victory or reprisal seemed outweighed at the moment by his hunger for lunch. Wearing sunglasses inside New
DENVER &mdash; Anyone who deals regularly with Reggie Evans or follows him on social media is familiar with his frequent use of the expression &ldquo;I ain&rsquo;t lyin&rsquo;.&rdquo; It started in his hometown, Pensacola, Fla., and his N.B.A. teammates picked it up. Whether responding to questions or chasing after rebounds, Evans is often
For the last 13 years, more often than not, the path to the National League pennant has run through St. Louis. The Cardinals have appeared in seven league championship series since 2000, including the last two without the benefit of winning their division. &ldquo;We had a group of guys who were unaffected by the size of the game,&rdquo; said Lance
GLENDALE, Ariz. &mdash; Jeff Keppinger is playing for his seventh major league team in 10 years. He has never reached double figures in home runs or stolen bases, has never played in the postseason and has never, until now, played on more than a one-year contract. He also almost never strikes out. In an age when his peers are fanning at an
As their strikeout totals piled up last summer, the pitchers for the Milwaukee Brewers hardly noticed. The team was struggling to reach .500, and the rotation had been in flux all year. It did not feel as if the pitching staff was closing in on the record for strikeouts in a season. &ldquo;It honestly didn&rsquo;t,&rdquo; said starter Yovani
Last season, the intensifying debate over baseball statistics grew a little louder. As Miguel Cabrera of the Detroit Tigers moved toward baseball&rsquo;s first triple crown since 1967, some of the game&rsquo;s more statistics-oriented enthusiasts had the temerity to suggest that even if he completed the rare feat of leading his league in batting
We know this baseball season will have breakout stars we never expected, injuries we never saw coming and &mdash; based on last year &mdash; about 100 no-hitters and perfect games. That all involves players. Here are nine new things to watch on the periphery of the game. MASCOT The Washington Nationals inaugurated a fifth chief executive to their
In 10 of 12 seasons, from 1998 through 2009, the Yankees and the Boston Red Sox finished in the top two spots in the American League East. When they open the season this week at Yankee Stadium, there will be no undercurrent of divisional superiority. &ldquo;The days of 2003 and 2004, where there was an upper class and lower class in the division,
DES MOINES (AP) &mdash; Last summer, the college wrestling stars Kyle Dake and Jordan Oliver were so excited at the London Olympics that they toyed with the idea of opposing each other at a different weight class. The 165-pound Dake and Oliver, who competes at 149 pounds, kicked around the idea of wrestling at 157 pounds. After watching Jordan
Cadel Evans, bidding for a revival after struggling since winning the 2011 Tour de France , has gone against convention and decided to race in May&rsquo;s Giro d&rsquo;Italia. Evans, a 36-year-old Australian, finished seventh in last year&rsquo;s Tour and blamed a virus. Bradley Wiggins, the Briton who won last year&rsquo;s Tour, will also ride
The Cornell senior Kyle Dake was awarded the Hodge Trophy as the nation&rsquo;s top wrestler. Dake became the only wrestler to win four titles in four different weight classes when he won an N.C.A.A. title at 165 pounds last weekend. Sports Briefing | Wrestling
Jesse Root scored nine seconds into overtime to give fourth-seeded Yale (19-12-3) a 3-2 victory over top-seeded Minnesota on Friday in Grand Rapids, Mich., in the N.C.A.A. men&rsquo;s hockey tournament&rsquo;s Round of 16. Kenny Agostino intercepted Minnesota defenseman Ben Marshall&rsquo;s pass behind the net and fed Root for his 10th goal of the
The Irish jockey J T McNamara was paralyzed as a result of his fall at the Cheltenham Festival in England earlier this month, it was announced. He fractured two vertebrae when his mount fell at the first fence. Sports Briefing | Horse racing
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. &mdash; Itsmyluckyday stops while walking the shed row in Barn 74 at Calder Race Course to gaze at his reflection in the glass door that leads into the office of Eddie Plesa Jr., his trainer. He leans his head to the right and peers intently as if to say, &ldquo;Is that really me?&rdquo; Plesa has seemingly been asking a similar
Tony Romo and the Dallas Cowboys agreed on a six-year contract extension worth $108 million, with about half of it guaranteed. The deal will lower Romo&rsquo;s salary-cap number of $16.8 million for 2013, giving the team more room to sign free agents and draft picks. Romo, 32, was entering the final year of his deal. Sports Briefing | Pro Football
Barcelona Coach Tito Vilanova led his first team practice since returning from a 10-week medical stay in New York to treat a throat tumor. He will not accompany the team to Saturday&rsquo;s match at Celta Vigo. Eric Abidal is in the squad for that game for the first time since having a liver transplant last year. &para; Paris St.-Germain opened an
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. &mdash; One set into his Sony Open semifinal match against David Ferrer on Friday, Tommy Haas could almost taste his first Masters final since 2001. Haas was looking to end a memorable week in the Miami area in style. Ferrer had other plans after dropping that first set to Haas, rallying to win the match, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3, and
Steve Wheatcroft, a Monday qualifier for the&nbsp;Houston&nbsp;Open, shot another 67 to take a one-stroke lead over Jason Kokrak and D. A. Points. A Monday qualifier has not won a PGA Tour tournament since Arjun Atwal in August 2010. Rory McIlroy made the cut by a single stroke. Sports Briefing | Golf
Alex Killorn scored with 15 seconds left in the third period, and Tampa Bay won, 5-4, in a shootout over the visiting Devils to give Coach Jon Cooper a victory in his N.H.L. debut. The Devils got goals from Andrei Loktionov, Tom Kostopoulos, Andy Greene and Ryan Carter. Sports Briefing | Hockey
LOS ANGELES &mdash; Wichita State was watching highlights of Ohio State on Friday morning, when the whole team shared a big, hearty laugh. At first, the Buckeyes&rsquo; Deshaun Thomas flashed across the screen, making shot after shot. They were tough, contested shots, and maybe ill advised. They were bad shots, Coach Gregg Marshall told his team.
INDIANAPOLIS &mdash; Oregon was the newcomer to the Midwest Region semifinals, joining three of college basketball&rsquo;s blue-blood programs &mdash; Louisville, Duke and Michigan State &mdash; and, in somewhat self-deprecating fashion, the Ducks brought their lone N.C.A.A. championship trophy on the team plane here. It is from 1939, a wobbly and
WASHINGTON &mdash; Gerry McNamara still participates in an occasional practice at Syracuse. Not far removed from his playing career, McNamara is the youngest assistant on Coach Jim Boeheim&rsquo;s staff, so the onus often falls on him to get out there and compete. McNamara enjoys himself for the most part. There are exceptions. For example, he does
WASHINGTON &mdash; Marquette Coach Buzz Williams called himself cantankerous on Friday. He also conceded he had no compassion on the basketball court. One day earlier, he tried to convince reporters that he was not a good person to be around on game days. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not good all day,&rdquo; Williams said. &ldquo;Not to you guys, not to my
ARLINGTON, Tex. &mdash; The shot was not a pedestrian 3-pointer, a casual 3 from 20 feet 9 inches. This was a heave. When Trey Burke stepped back, he was at least nine feet beyond the regulation 3-point line. He was drifting and Kansas&rsquo; 6-foot-8 Kevin Young was jumping toward him. The chances of the ball going in were about the same odds many
ARLINGTON, Tex. &mdash; Florida&rsquo;s Mike Rosario seemed thwarted as he looked to make an inbounds pass with two minutes to play. The Gators were safely ahead, so a turnover at this juncture would have been meaningless. Rosario, though, remained focused and cleverly bounced the ball off the back of Florida Gulf Coast&rsquo;s Christophe Varidel.
LOS ANGELES &mdash; The club, among the most exclusive in N.C.A.A. tournament history, includes stars and unknowns, guards and post players, from universities with tradition and without. From Christian Laettner to Bryce Drew, James Forrest to Scottie Reynolds, they are linked by clocks dwindled and buzzers beaten and heartbeats elevated. All made
INDIANAPOLIS &mdash; Steven Izzo called it right. Two weeks ago, Steven, the 13-year-old son of Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo, sidestepped family loyalty and picked Duke to defeat the Spartans in his N.C.A.A. tournament bracket. The Blue Devils validated his nerve Friday night by sending the Izzos home. In a Midwest Region semifinal matching two of
The chants were faint but audible. As J. R. Smith stepped to the free-throw line late in the fourth quarter, an &ldquo;M-V-P&rdquo; chant emanated from the upper section of Madison Square Garden. Smith certainly is not a candidate for the league&rsquo;s Most Valuable Player award, but &ldquo;Sixth Man of the Year&rdquo; does not lend itself as
DENVER &mdash; The Nets &rsquo; bid to ensure a winning road record for the first time since entering the N.B.A. in 1976 came up well short against the Denver Nuggets &rsquo; home dominance on Friday night. The Nuggets scored the game&rsquo;s first 21 fast-break points en route to a 109-87 victory, their 18th in a row at the Pepsi Center. Denver is
LeBron James scored 36 points Friday, hitting six consecutive 3-pointers in less than six minutes in the first half, and the visiting Miami Heat rebounded from their first loss in nearly two months to beat the New Orleans Hornets , 108-89. The Heat clinched the top seed in the East for the playoffs. &para; Paul Pierce had 20 points, 10 assists and
There is little that screams the words &ldquo;damage&rdquo; and &ldquo;control&rdquo; like a typically news-media-shy baseball owner suddenly making the rounds of sports talk radio and opening his door to quotation-hungry reporters. In a spate of recent interviews, Hal Steinbrenner, the Yankees &rsquo; managing general partner, has given his
WASHINGTON &mdash; For almost a century, the Yankees have been a team accustomed to snatching the best players from other organizations, whether it was Babe Ruth, Catfish Hunter or Alex Rodriguez. But that is not the case this spring. The Yankees have taken on a horde of castoffs from other organizations, players who were either released, like Lyle
The Detroit Tigers &rsquo; ace, Justin Verlander, agreed to a seven-year, $180 million contract, topping Felix Hernandez for the richest deal for a pitcher in baseball history. Verlander, 30, the 2011 American League most valuable player and Cy Young Award winner, had been signed through 2014 for $20 million a season. The new deal keeps those
The local forecast on Monday calls for a high near 60 degrees with a mix of sun and clouds. Not bad for fans heading to Yankee Stadium and Citi Field as the Yankees and the Mets open their seasons simultaneously in New York for the first time. But these are not, after all, the best of times for the Yankees or the Mets, something that is reflected
In their 51 years together, the Mets and the Yankees have both been losing teams on only six occasions, and the last time it happened was way back in 1992. Since then, the Yankees have won five World Series and the Mets ... well, they&rsquo;re the Mets, so they haven&rsquo;t won any. As 2013 approaches, neither team looks to be in particularly good
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. &mdash; A day after Johan Santana learned that he had retorn a capsule in his pitching shoulder, all but ending his career with the Mets , his agent insisted that Santana was not done pitching. &ldquo;His career is not over; I can tell you that,&rdquo; the agent Peter Greenberg said. &ldquo;Johan doesn&rsquo;t want to go out
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. &mdash; The Mets made several roster moves Friday after they played their final home spring training game. Outfielder Marlon Byrd and pitchers Scott Atchison, LaTroy Hawkins and Scott Rice made the team, while Robert Carson and Omar Quintanilla were sent to Las Vegas, where the Mets have their Class AAA franchise. On Saturday,
Now that the Miami Heat&rsquo;s winning streak has fizzled to an unsatisfying end, we can all go back to contemplating the N.C.A.A. tournaments&rsquo; rounds of 16 or contemplating an imminent baseball season or watching &ldquo;Iron Chef&rdquo; reruns or whatever else usually fills the time between spring supposedly starting and when it really
Of the 400 hours of footage that the independent filmmakers Grant Barbeito and Christo Brock gathered on the swimming champion Missy Franklin and her training partner Kara Lynn Joyce, one scene stands out as their favorite. It was not from any of Franklin&rsquo;s four gold medal swims at the Olympics, but from the 2012 Colorado state high school
Mark Martin will drive for Joe Gibbs Racing while Denny Hamlin recovers from a fractured vertebra in his lower back. Hamlin is expected to miss at least five races. Sports Briefing | Auto Racing
The computer document was named LetterOfLife. Robbie Rogers, a former member of the United States national team and a professional soccer player in England, wrote it one night last December, pounding on his keyboard while sitting in bed. When he finished, he saved it on the main screen of his laptop and it stayed there, for more than two months,
Lest anyone think that Landon Donovan&rsquo;s recent sabbatical from soccer diminished his desire to play for the United States, Donovan said Thursday that he would even be willing to change positions if it meant being called in by Coach Jurgen Klinsmann. &ldquo;If I can go back in with the national team and they ask me to play goalie, then
The American midfielder Stuart Holden is temporarily switching between English second-tier clubs Bolton and Sheffield Wednesday. Holden will join Wednesday on loan until April 24. It has been a month since Holden played his first league game after nearly two years of knee problems. &para; The Red&nbsp;Bulls&nbsp;acquired the former Harvard forward
Serena Williams advanced to the final of the Sony Open in Key Biscayne, Fla., by drubbing Agnieszka Radwanska, 6-0, 6-3. Williams, ranked No. 1, will play Maria Sharapova for the title on Saturday. Williams broke the tournament record for victories by a woman. She is 60-7; Steffi Graf was 59-6. Sharapova swept the first 10 points, beating Jelena
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. &mdash; Less than two months after Laura Robson was born on Jan. 21, 1994, a 20-year-old Lisa Raymond played in the Sony Open for the first time. On Friday, Raymond and Robson will be on the court here together, facing the top-seeded Italians Sara Errani and Roberta Vinci in the women&rsquo;s doubles semifinals and hoping to
